# IML-Smester-Project

<h2>Problem Statement</h2>
We want to check that email is spam or not through text classification in WEKA.
<h2>Introduction</h2>
Every day E-mail users receive hundreds of spam messages with a new content, from new addresses which are automatically generated by robot software. To filter spam with traditional methods as black-white lists (domains, IP addresses, mailing addresses) is almost impossible. Application of text mining methods to an E-mail can raise efficiency of a filtration of spam. Also classifying spam messages will be possible to establish thematic dependence from geographical.

<h2>DATASET</h2>
We have 5180 emails as dataset in three folders norm for normal, ham for harm and spam for Spam. Dataset features are as follows.
1.	A particular word or character was frequently occurring in the e-mail.
2.	The run-length attributes (55-57) measure the length of sequences of consecutive capital letters.
<h2>ALGORITHM</h2>
We are using C4.5 algorithm known as j48 algorithm in WEKA. C4.5 is an algorithm used to generate a decision tree developed by Ross Quinlan. C4.5 is an extension of Quinlan's earlier ID3 algorithm. The decision trees generated by C4.5 can be used for classification, and for this reason, C4.5 is often referred to as a statistical classifier. 
It became quite popular after ranking #1 in the Top 10 Algorithms in Data Mining.

<h2>RELATED WORK</h2>
<h3>1.	Normalize Data</h3>
The dataset we get was in 5180 text files as shown in following screenshots.

